somewhere around third grade I received
my very first allowance I could not
believe it my mother a Scottish
presbyterian doling out free money had
she lost her mind but I discovered
quickly that there were chores attached
but if I wanted the money I would have
to listen to a brief speech right there
in the kitchen and so I tried to sit
still as she offered me all the
financial advice I would ever need it
sounded something like this I think she
used the acronym for Smarties the S is
for say a prayer of thanks whenever you
receive money all that we have is on
loan be grateful and stop eating all the
cookie dough son you'll get addicted
it'll ruin your appetite and money will
serve you well just make sure you don't
serve it a always give the first part of
it back to God
10% is a great place to start and smile
when you drop it in the offering plate
it's fun to shock people
ah remember that borrowing money is like
wetting your bed you'll feel warm for a
while but it won't last Sun and hey quit
pulling the dog's ears T The Tortoise
and the hare is a book about finances
there's no hurry don't run after
get-rich-quick schemes go slow and
steady and you'll be pleasantly
surprised at the ending I if you can't
afford the donut leave it on the shelf
remember if your outgo exceeds your
income your upkeep will be your downfall
if you want a 10 cent ice-cream cone and
only have a penny come home and raid the
fridge but not right now for pete's sake
back away from the cookies and sit down
and listen II enjoy things without
owning them we can't afford a motorcycle
but Philip Dawson has one here take him
some of these cookies yes saving money
is like dessert you'll have to wait for
it but but you'll be glad you did
besides you may need the money one day
to help people who didn't follow these
principles you may go now son be a good
boy other advice would come as I aged
but after heating her advice all these
years I owe no one anything contentment
has been my companion and when the
markets go up and down panic is only
thing I witness on television in the
wake of the recent market crash many
began to rediscover what makes them rich
it was so sad to see people staying home
getting to know their children wasn't it
rather than going out to the movies and
eating out fathers were seen throwing
baseballs with their children leaning
over fences talking with neighbors
riding bicycles walking the dog and
walking the children others admitted to
reading books at KOA Campground
reservations skyrocketed one camp site
manager said kids have as much fun here
as they do at Disneyland and the lines
for the swing sets are shorter if this
continues imagine where we'll end up I
wonder if all of this wasn't more of a
blessing than we'd like to admit the
week I discovered that my retirement
savings plan had been devalued by 50%
and that I would therefore have to work
until the age of 3412 I wrote these
words thank you Lord for this market
crash for too long we've chased things
that have not kept their promise for too
long we've sacrificed at the altar of
stuff and has cost us our families and
our marriages and our peace our false
prophet said stuff was the hallmark of
your blessing and we listened we turned
our eyes from the blesser to the
blessings from the giver to the gifts we
chased what we did not have forgetting
to be grateful for what you gave us we
placed our trust in limited resources
when a limitless God offers us the
richness of his pleasure and his peace
forgive us Lord keep us ever mindful of
the eternal ever aware that we hard to
store up treasure in heaven where it
won't rust and fade need insurance a
facelift or a makeover man